[KV] KV tutorial to serve static & dynamic responses from KV assets (#15495)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/kv/tutorials/workers-kv-to-serve-assets.md

---
updated: 2024-06-17
difficulty: Intermediate
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Store and retrieve static assets with Workers KV
---

# Store and retrieve static assets with Workers KV

This tutorial will teach you how to store and retrieve static assets using KV, and use them to generate your Workers response.

By storing static assets in Workers KV, you can retrieve these assets globally with  low-latency and high throughput. You can then serve these assets directly, or use them to dynamically generate responses. This can be useful when serving files and images, or when generating dynamic HTML responses from static assets such as translations.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> This tutorial demonstrates how to access data and assets from KV and use them to generate static and dynamic responses. If you want to serve static assets of a frontend web application, consider using [Cloudflare Pages](/pages/) which provides a purpose-built experience for web applications with built-in environments, CI/CD integration and more.

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to access data and assets from KV and use them to generate static and dynamic responses. If you want to serve static assets of a frontend web application, consider using [Cloudflare Pages](/pages/) which provides a purpose-built experience for web applications with built-in environments, CI/CD, Pages Functions for dynamic responses, and more.
```

To create a KV store via Wrangler:

1. Open your terminal and run the following command:

```sh
$ wrangler kv namespace create assets
```

The `wrangler kv namespace create assets` subcommand creates a KV namespace by concatenating your Worker's name and the value provided for `assets`. An `id` will be randomly generated for the KV namespace.
 
```sh
$ wrangler kv namespace create assets

🌀 Creating namespace with title "tutorial-kv-assets-assets"
✨ Success!
Add the following to your configuration file in your kv_namespaces array:
[[kv_namespaces]]
binding = "assets"
id = "<GENERATED_NAMESPACE_ID>"
```

2. In your `wrangler.toml` file, add the following with the values generated in the terminal:

```bash
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
[[kv_namespaces]]
binding = "assets"
id = "<GENERATED_NAMESPACE_ID>"
```

The [KV binding](/kv/reference/kv-bindings) `assets` is how your Worker will interact with the [KV namespace](/kv/reference/kv-namespaces/). This binding will be provided as a runtime variable within your Workers code by the Workers runtime.

> We'll also create a preview KV namespace. It is recommended to create a separate preview KV namespace when developing locally to avoid making changes to the production resource. The Wrangler CLI will only use the namespace specified by `preview_id` in the KV namespace configuration of the `wrangler.toml` file.

Author: ```suggestion
We'll also create a preview KV namespace. It is recommended to create a separate KV namespace when developing locally to avoid making changes to the production namespace. When developing locally against remote resources, the Wrangler CLI will only use the namespace specified by `preview_id` in the KV namespace configuration of the `wrangler.toml` file.
```
